# Emulator Supports

## âœ… [Bluestacks-CN 5](https://www.bluestacks.cn/)

Fully compatible. Need to turn on `Settings` - `Engine Settings` - `Allow ADB connection`.

## âœ… [Bluestacks 5](https://www.bluestacks.com/) (RecommendedðŸ‘)

Fully compatible. Need to turn on `Settings` - `Advanced` - `Android Debug Bridge`.

## âœ… [Bluestacks 5 Hyper-V Version](https://support.bluestacks.com/hc/en-us/articles/4415238471053-System-requirements-for-BlueStacks-5-on-Hyper-V-enabled-Windows-10-and-11-)

Compatible.

- Turn on `Settings` - `Advanced` - `Android Debug Bridge`.
- Bluestack Hyper-V port changes frequently. Here is a simple hack:

    1. Find `bluestacks.conf` in the data location of the emulator. (Default is `C:\ProgramData\BlueStacks_nxt\bluestacks.conf`)
    2. If you are using MAA for the first time, Launch it, which generates `gui.json`.
    3. **Exit** MAA, **then** open the `gui.json`, and add a new field `Bluestacks.Config.Path`, with the value of the full path of `bluestacks.conf` (backslashes should be escaped like `\\`).
    For example: (suppose the file is at `C:\ProgramData\BlueStacks_nxt\bluestacks.conf`)

        ```jsonc
        {
            "Configurations": {
                "Default": {
                    "Bluestacks.Config.Path":"C:\\ProgramData\\BlueStacks_nxt\\bluestacks.conf",
                    // ...
                }
            }
        }
        ```

    4. LinkStart!

- If you need to run multiple emulators (ignore this step if you do not need to do so), you can change the keywords for MAA to detect configuration files.
    Add field `Bluestacks.Config.Keyword` following the steps above
    Example:

    ```jsonc
    "Bluestacks.Config.Keyword":"bst.instance.Nougat64.status.adb_port",
    ```

## âœ… [Nox](https://en.bignox.com/)

Fully compatible.

## âœ… [Nox Android 9](https://en.bignox.com/)

Fully compatible.

## âš ï¸ [MuMu](https://www.mumuglobal.com/)

Compatible but:

- Requires MAA to "Run as Administrator" to get ADB path and address (since MuMu runs as admin).
- You can also fill in the ADB path and address if you do not wish to run as admin.
- It is not recommended to use the default odd resolutions of MuMu, it is better to change to mainstream resolutions such as 1280x720, 1920x1080, 2560x1440, etc.
- MuMu uses the same adb port for multi-instance, so multi-instance is not supported.

## ðŸš« MuMu Mobile Game Assistant

Incompatible. ADB port is not open.

## âš ï¸ [MuMu emulator X (Android 12)](https://www.mumuglobal.com/) (most smoothðŸ‘)

Compatible but:

- This emulator is still in the testing phase and it is uncertain whether unknown issues will occur.
- Requires MAA to "Run as Administrator" to get ADB path and address (since MuMu runs as admin).
- You can also fill in the ADB path and address if you do not wish to run as admin.
- It is not recommended to use the default odd resolutions of MuMu, it is better to change to mainstream resolutions such as 1280x720, 1920x1080, 2560x1440, etc.
- MuMu uses the same adb port for multi-instance, so multi-instance is not supported.

## âš ï¸ [Leidian](https://www.ldmnq.com/)

The recent official update has fixed some issues and provided corresponding support. After some time of testing, we have basically confirmed that it can be used normally.
While using it, please still pay attention to the following points, but overall, the user experience has been greatly improved.

- **For LDPlayer 9, it is recommended to use version 9.0.37 or above; for LDPlayer 5, it is recommended to use version 5.0.44 or above.**
- We cannot guarantee that the LDPlayer emulator can run perfectly on all computers, but we are working hard to optimize the adaptation.
- If you encounter any problems when using the LDPlayer emulator, please update to the latest version of the emulator and try to solve the problem by yourself first. If you encounter difficulties, please feel free to provide feedback, and we will try our best to provide support.
- Note: We welcome feedback on issues related to the LDPlayer emulator, and will try to solve them. We would be very grateful if you could provide relevant code or contributions.

## âœ… [Memu](https://www.memuplay.com)

Compatible, but there are fewer tests and there may be unknown issues

## ðŸš« Tencent Mobile Game Assistant

Incompatible. ADB port is not open.

## âš ï¸ [Win11 WSA](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/android/wsa/)

Partially compatible.

- Need to connect with [Custom Connection](#%EF%B8%8F-custom-connection).
- For WSA 2204 or higher (version is in the `About` window of system settings), try `General Configuration` to connect.
- For WSA 2203 or older (version is in the top of the system settings window), try `Legacy WSA` to connect.
- Since WSA does not support changing resolution, please resize the window manually because this program supports 720p or higher `16:9` resolution better. (Or you can simply maximize the window with `F11` if your monitor is 16:9.)
- Please ensure that your emulator is at the top of other windows in most of the time and there are no other android applications running. Otherwise the game may pause or the recognition may fail.
- Sometimes the screenshot of WSA may be blank, causing recognition failure. So it is not recommended to use WSA.

## âœ… [AVD](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/managing-avds)

Compatible.

### âš™ï¸ Non-`16:9` devices like smartphones or tablets

You may need to change the resolution manually since MAA supports only `16:9` resolution.

1. Turn on USB debugging mode and connect your device to the computer with a cable, or debug with ADB remotely.
2. Run `Command Prompt (CMD)`, check the device address and connect.

    - Use the following command to check device ID if you are using USB cable to connect:

    ```bash
    adb devices                          # Checks the connection status of the current device, with the first column to be the device ID
    ```

    After successful connection, you will see the following messages:

    ```bash
    C:\Users\username>adb devices
    List of devices attached
    VFNDU1682100xxxx        device       # The data before "device" is the device ID
    ```

    - If you are using remote ADB connection: go to `Settings -> WLAN -> View` to find the corresponding IP address, and the port will usually be 5555 or 5037.

    ```bash
    adb connect <IP Address + Port>        # E.g. 192.168.0.10:5555
    ```

    - If it prompts `'adb' is not recognized as an internal or external command`, it is because the environment variable is not configured correctly. You need to give the full path of ADB to run it. For example:

    ```bash
    D:\adb_unzip_path\adb.exe devices          # Or you can simply drag the adb.exe to CMD window and type [SPACE] devices
    ```

    It is suggested that you configure the environment variable for ADB if you need to run it frequently. Please refer to the articles on the Internet about how to configure it for help.

3. Enter the command prompt to proceed

   ```bash
   adb -s <Device ID or IP + Port> shell  # Enters the command prompt of the device
   wm size                               # Checks the resolution of the current device
   wm size 720x1280                      # Changes the resolution to 720p
   ```

4. Fill in the ADB path and the address of your smartphone (device ID or IP + port) in MAA
5. Set the `Special-shaped screen adaptation` to 0 (off) in the game settings.
    Otherwise, your phone UI and click response may be dislocated if you change the resolution with ADB later.
6. Use MAA (â‰§âˆ‡â‰¦)ï¾‰
7. Before exiting MAA, reset the resolution of your phone.

   ```bash
   wm size reset                         # Resets resolution
   ```
#### Using `Starts/End with Script` Options

After MAA version 4.13.0, you're able to utilize `Starts/End with Script` options to apply resolution changes on startup and revert the changes on finishing.

Create two script files: `startup.bat` & `finish.bat` in appropriate path and edit them using your favored text editor.

In `startup.bat`:

```bash
adb shell wm size 1080x1920
::If long-time operation is required, add the following line to save the power and protect your screen.
adb shell settings put system screen_brightness 1 
```

In `finish.bat`:

```bash
adb shell wm size reset
::Add the following line to brighten your screen
adb shell settings put system screen_brightness 20
::Add the following line to lock (Command may differ in different device, test it first)
adb shell input keyevent 26
```

Then go to `Settings` - `Connection Settings` and add the paths of files above to `Starts with Script` & `End with Script` options, the script will be executed at corresponding timing. 

