# How to use Issue Bot

The action of Issue Bot is [issue-checker](https://github.com/zzyyyl/issue-checker), with configuration file [issue-checker.yml](.github/issue-checker.yml).

**Note that your merge request will be marked as `ambiguous` when you are not committing with Commitizen specification.**

## Features

### Auto Notification

- Adds comments to notify users that the files of their issues are not uploaded successfully.
- Adds tags to issues and pull requests, e.g., `module`, `Client`, `ambiguous`, `translation required`, etc.
  Issue Bot will add categories based on keywords. You can modify tags manually as well.
  Please refer to the [configuration file](.github/issue-checker.yml) for the keywords.
- Adds `MAA Team` tag for MAA team members with public visibility.

#### Pull Request

Issue Bot will check the title of your pull request. Unless the title starts with one of the following keywords, the pull request will be marked as `ambiguous`.

- `build` `chore` `ci` `doc` `docs` `feat` `fix` `perf` `refactor` `rfc` `style` `test`
- `Merge` `merge` `Revert` `revert`

### Triggering Manually

It is better to trigger Issue Bot with keywords instead of commands listed below, unless that **you are aware that your action may confuse Issue Bot**.

Try not to add or delete category tags manually because they may be removed after changes are made.

#### Issues and Their Comments

When adding/modifying an issue:

- `Add {LABEL_NAME}` will add a new label.
- `Remove {LABEL_NAME}` will delete a label.
- `Remove labels` will delete all labels.

When adding/modifying a comment:

- `Add ambiguous` will keep the `ambiguous` label, but will not add it if it is not present.
- `Remove {LABEL_NAME}` will make sure no labels of the specified type are added.<sup>1</sup>
- `Remove labels` will make sure no labels are added.<sup>1</sup>
- To add `fixed` tags, you can use any of the commands below:<sup>2</sup>
  - `https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaAssistantArknights/commit/{COMMIT_HASH} fixed`
  - `fixed by https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaAssistantArknights/commit/{COMMIT_HASH}`
  - `{VERSION} fixed`
  - `fixed by {VERSION}`
- `Duplicate of #{ISSUE_NUMBER}` will add `duplicate` tag to the issue.
- **You can add some `remove` operations if your comment may confuse Issue Bot.**

_Note<sup>1</sup>: `Remove ambiguous` and `Remove labels` will delete `ambiguous` tag._  
_Note<sup>2</sup>: The `COMMIT_HASH` here is the full 40-character hash._

#### Pull Requests and Their Comments

Similar to [#Issues and Their Comments](#issues-and-their-comments). Furthermore:

- `Release {VERSION}` will add `release` tag.
- `fixed`, `duplicated` will **NOT** be auto-added.

#### Push

For any commit in a push:

- `fixed` tag will be added if the commit message contains one of the following:
  - `fix #{ISSUE_NUMBER}`
  - `close #{ISSUE_NUMBER}`
  - `fix https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaAssistantArknights/issues/{ISSUE_NUMBER}`
  - `close https://github.com/MaaAssistantArknights/MaaAssistantArknights/issues/{ISSUE_NUMBER}`
