# Oversea Service Adaptation

## Preparation

Before starting this tutorial, make sure you have.

1. installed and properly configured the required software. There should be information in the `readme.md` of the ZH-CH client or the corresponding client to ensure that the supported features work properly.
2. Read `MaaAssistantArknights/docs/3.4-TASK_SCHEMA.md`, have a basic understanding of the meaning and usage of each field, and can understand the meaning and usage of `@` and `#` in the code.
3. understand the `task.json` file and template image of ZH-CH client will be used as an alternative when it is unmentioned or missing for the oversea client. The content in the `task.json` for oversea client are replaced and rewrited according to the fields of the ZH-CH task.
4. have some English ability, be able to read English logs, and be able to find out the missing pictures and other information through the logs.
5. understood that it is recommended to perform the modification individually according to the task chain. As an illustration, to modify the `Award` task, modify the `template image` / `text` / `roi` step by step in accordance with the order in its `next` field, to ensure that every task are working normally after modification and error are spotted easily. Moreover, this can prevent confusion and forgetting which task the software is stuck on when too much content is modified at once.

### Preparation before making changes

Before making changes, there are several preparations that need to be noted.

1. refer to the ZH-CH task.json and make sure you have prepared the template images and text content for the oversea client.
2. Make sure you have ready access to these images and text content.

## Get screenshots

In order to get high quality screenshots, please follow these guidelines.

1. Use the screenshot tool that comes with the emulator to take and save screenshots.
2. Make sure the size of the screenshot is larger than `1280*720` and the aspect ratio is `16:9`.
3. Make sure that the screenshot does not contain any extraneous content, such as the taskbar, status bar, notification bar, etc.
4. Make sure that the screenshot contains all the content that needs to be recognized.

In order to crop the image and get the text/image `roi`, you need to install `python` and `opencv` and download the `MaaAssistantArknights/tools/CropRoi/main.py` file.

Then, follow these steps.

1. Create new `src` and `dst` folders in the same directory as `main.py`.
2. Put the **complete screenshot** of the text/image that needs to be resized or in need of new `roi` value into the `src` folder.
3. Run `main.py`.
4. Select the target range by dragging the mouse, trying not to include extraneous content.
5. Once the range is determined, press `S` to save and `Q` to exit. The cropped image will be saved in the `dst` folder.

For example, the output after completing a crop would be

``` log
src: Screenshot_xxx.png
dst: Screenshot_xxx.png_426,272,177,201.png
original roi: 476, 322, 77, 101,
amplified roi: 426, 272, 177, 201
```

where

`Screenshot_xxx.png` is the name of the full screenshot placed in the `src` folder. `Screenshot_xxx.png_426,272,177,201.png` is the image after the capture.

`original roi` is the area selected by the mouse. `amplified roi` is the amplified area, you need the amplified area, so the `roi` field in `task.json` is filled with this value.

## Modify the template image

Before modifying the template image, you need to open the template image folder of the corresponding client and the template image folder of the ZH-CH service.

For example.

- The location of the template image folder for US service is `MaaAssistantArknights\resource\global\YoStarEN\resource\template`.
- The location of the template image folder for the ZH-CH service is `MaaAssistantArknights\resource\template`.

Refer to the template images mentioned in `task.json`, compare the template images of ZH-CH service and Oversea service, and find out the missing templates in Oversea service.

Usually, except for images such as logos, templates that contain text need to be replaced by screenshots. If the image size is significantly larger than the corresponding template image in the ZH-CH service, you need to modify the size of `roi`.

Put the captured and renamed template image into the template image folder of the corresponding client.

## Modify the text content

Before modifying the text content, you need to open `task.json` of the corresponding server and `task.json` of the Chinese service.

For example.

- The location of `task.json` in US service is `MaaAssistantArknights\resource\global\YoStarEN\resource\tasks.json`.
- The location of `task.json` for ZH-CH service is `MaaAssistantArknights\resource\tasks.json`.

Find the corresponding task and change the `text` field to the content displayed in the corresponding server. Note that the identified content can be a substring of the full content within the game.

In general, `text` containing text needs to be replaced unless it is recognized as a pure ASCII character. If the text length is significantly longer than that of the ZH-CH service, you need to modify the size of `roi`, e.g. if the difference of length between `"任务"`(Mission in chinese) and `"Mission"` is too large, you need to modify the size of `roi` for that mission in the Oversea service.

If there is no such task in the `task.json` of the corresponding external service, you need to add the mission, just fill in the `text` field.

## Modify ROI range

1. Open the `task.json` of the corresponding server, for example, the location of the US service is `MaaAssistantArknights\resource\global\YoStarEN\resource\tasks.json`.
2. Find the task that corresponds to the `roi` range you need to modify, and use the screenshot you prepared of the Oversea game interface to adjust the size of the `roi` range according to the `amplified roi`.
3. Normally, `roi` does not need to be modified, but only when the difference between the size of the text and that of the ZH-CH client is too large.
4. If the task does not exist in the `task.json` of the corresponding Oversea service, add the task and write the `roi` field.

## Save the settings and restart the software

After the changes are done, restart the software and reload the file to make the changes take effect. Or create a new `DEBUG.txt` in the software directory, so that the template and files will be reloaded every time you click Start, no need to restart.

To check for success.

1. Check the operation of the software to make sure the software can be used properly o the external service.
2. If it does not work properly, you need to check if the changes are correct or check the log output so that you can find what went wrong.

## Interpreting the logs

Sometimes, after modifying `task.json`, we find that the program still doesn't work correctly, so we should consider checking the logs to find the error and modify the corresponding task.

The log file is located in the root directory of the software and is named `asst.log`. If you compiled MAA yourself, it is in `\x64\Release` or `x64\RelWithDebInfo`, depending on the compilation mode you chose when compiling.

Here is an example log.

``` log
[2022-12-18 17:43:17.535][INF][Px7ec][Tx15c8] {"taskchain":"Award","details":{"to_be_recognized":["Award@ReturnTo","Award","ReceiveAward","DailyTask","WeeklyTask","Award@CloseAnno","Award@CloseAnnoTexas","Award@TodaysSupplies","Award@FromStageSN"],"cur_retry":10,"retry_times":20},"first":["AwardBegin"],"taskid":2,"class":"asst::ProcessTask","subtask":"ProcessTask","pre_task":"AwardBegin"}
[2022-12-18 17:43:18.398][INF][Px7ec][Tx15c8] Call ` C:\Program Files\BlueStacks_nxt\. \HD-Adb.exe -s 127.0.0.1:5555 exec-out "screencap | gzip -1" ` ret 0 , cost 862 ms , stdout size: 2074904 , socket size: 0
[2022-12-18 17:43:18.541][TRC][Px7ec][Tx15c8] OcrPack::recognize | roi: [ 500, 50, 300, 150 ]
[2022-12-18 17:43:18.541][TRC][Px7ec][Tx15c8] Ocr Pipeline with asst::WordOcr | enter
[2022-12-18 17:43:18.634][TRC][Px7ec][Tx15c8] Ocr Pipeline with asst::WordOcr | leave, 93 ms
[2022-12-18 17:43:18.634][TRC][Px7ec][Tx15c8] OcrPack::recognize | raw: [{ : [ 0, 0, 300, 150 ], score: 0.000000 }]
[2022-12-18 17:43:18.634][TRC][Px7ec][Tx15c8] OcrPack::recognize | proc: []
[2022-12-18 17:43:18.637][TRC][Px7ec][Tx15c8] asst::ProcessTask::_run | leave, 1101 ms
[2022-12-18 17:43:18.638][TRC][Px7ec][Tx15c8] ready to sleep 500
[2022-12-18 17:43:19.144][TRC][Px7ec][Tx15c8] end of sleep 500
[2022-12-18 17:43:19.144][TRC][Px7ec][Tx15c8] asst::ProcessTask::_run | enter
```

In this log, you can see that.

- `taskchain` represents the task currently in progress.
- `details` is the content of the task, including the fields to be recognized (`to_be_recognized`) and the current number of retries (`cur_retry`) and the total number of retries (`retry_times`).
- `first` represents the start of the task.
- `taskid` is the task number.
- `class` and `subtask` represent the class and subtask of the task, respectively.
- `pre_task` represents the previous task.
In addition, the execution of the command (e.g. `Call`) and the `OCR` information (e.g. `OcrPack::recognize`) are recorded in the log.

In this log `"to_be_recognized"`,`"cur_retry":3,"retry_times":20` means that the task has been repeatedly recognized 10 times, and the maximum number of times is 20, after the maximum number of times is recognized, the task will be skipped and an error will be reported, and the next task will be performed. If there is no problem with the previous task, we can basically determine that there is a problem with the recognition here. We need to check the tasks mentioned in the log to find out whether there is a corresponding `template file`, whether the `text` of the corresponding task is wrong, and whether the `roi` range of the task recognition is correct, so as to find out where the problem lies and modify it.

By looking at the corresponding template image, I found that there is a template for this picture in the US template folder, but the size is obviously larger than the picture in China, so the `roi` in China is not recognized in the US, so I need to modify the corresponding task `roi` in the US `task.json` to make it correspond to the size of the picture in the US.
